## What is a Kill Chain: 
Originating from the military, a “Kill Chain” is a term used "to explain the various stages of an attack." 

# In the realm of cybersecurity..
 a “Kill Chain” is used to describe the methodology/path attackers such as hackers or APTs use to approach and intrude a target.

For example, an attacker scanning, exploiting a web vulnerability, and escalating privileges will be a “Kill Chain”.  

The objective is to understand an attacker's “Kill Chain” so that defensive measures can be put in place to either pre-emptively protect a system or disrupt an attacker's attempt. 




# ---------------------------
## Here's more details about Kill Chain: 
 Paul Pols' Unified Kill Chain, published in 2017, aims to complement (not compete with) other cybersecurity kill chain frameworks, such as Lockheed Martin’s and MITRE’s ATT&CK.

# Phases of UKC 
The UKC states that there are 18 phases to an attack: Everything from reconnaissance to data exfiltration and understanding an attacker's motive. 

Here are the follows: 

1. Reconnaissance: Researching, identifying and selecting targets using active or passive reconnaissance.

2. Weaponization: Preparatory activities aimed at setting up the infrastructure required for the attack.

3. Delivery: Techniques resulting in the transmission of a weaponized object to the targeted environment.

4. Social Engineering: Techniques aimed at the manipulation of people to perform unsafe actions.

5. Exploitation: Techniques to exploit vulnerabilities in systems that may, amongst others, result in code execution.

6. Persistence: Any access, action or change to a system that gives an attacker persistent presence on the system.

7. Defense Evasion: Techniques an attacker may specifically use for evading detection or avoiding other defenses.

8. Command & Control: Techniques that allow attackers to communicate with controlled systems within a target network.

9. Pivoting: Tunneling traffic through a controlled system to other systems that are not directly accessible.

10. Discovery: Techniques that allow an attacker to gain knowledge about a system and its network environment.

11. Privilege Escalation: The result of techniques that provide an attacker with higher permissions on a system or network.

12. Execution: Techniques that result in execution of attacker-controlled code on a local or remote system.

13. Credential Access: Techniques resulting in the access of, or control over, system, service or domain credentials.

14. Lateral Movement: Techniques that enable an adversary to horizontally access and control other remote systems.

15. Collection: Techniques used to identify and gather data from a target network prior to exfiltration.

16. Exfiltration: Techniques that result or aid in an attacker removing data from a target network.

17. Impact: Techniques aimed at manipulating, interrupting or destroying the target system or data.

18. Objectives: Socio-technical objectives of an attack that are intended to achieve a strategic goal.

 



# Why UKC is better over traditional cyber kill chain? 
It includes the fact that it is modern and extremely detailed. It has 18 phases officially, whereas other frameworks may have a small handful. 
Also, the UKC highlights a much more realistic attack scenario. Various stages will often re-occur. For example, after exploiting a machine, an attacker will begin reconnaissance to pivot another system. 