# The main focus of this series of phases
To follow a successful foothold being established on the target network. An attacker would seek to gain additional access and privileges to systems and data to fulfil their goals. The attacker would set up a base on one of the systems to act as their pivot point and use it to gather information about the internal network. 


## Explore the different phases of this section of the UKC   

**Pivoting (MITRE Tactic TA0008)**
Once the attacker has access to the system, they would use it as their staging site and a tunnel between their command operations and the victim’s network. 
The system would also be used as the distribution point for all malware and backdoors at later stages.

**Discovery (MITRE Tactic TA0007)**
The adversary would uncover information about the system and the network it is connected to. Within this stage, the knowledge base would be built from the active user accounts, the permissions granted, applications and software in use, web browser activity, files, directories and network shares, and system configurations.

**Privilege Escalation (MITRE Tactic TA0004)**
Following their knowledge-gathering, the adversary would try to gain more prominent permissions within the pivot system. 
hey would leverage the information on the accounts present with vulnerabilities and misconfigurations found to elevate their access to one of the following superior levels:
1. SYSTEM/ ROOT.
2. Local Administrator.
3. A user account with Admin-like access.
4. A user account with specific access or functions.


**Execution (MITRE Tactic TA0002)**
This is where attackers deploy their malicious code using the pivot system as their host. Remote trojans, C2 scripts, malicious links and scheduled tasks are deployed and created to facilitate a recurring presence on the system and uphold their persistence.

**Credential Access (MITRE Tactic TA0006)**
Working hand in hand with the Privilege Escalation stage, the adversary would attempt to steal account names and passwords through various methods, including keylogging and credential dumping. 
* Credential dumping:  a specific technique used to extract credentials from memory. 
This makes them harder to detect during their attack as they would be using legitimate credentials.

**Lateral Movement (MITRE Tactic TA0008)**
With the credentials and elevated privileges, the adversary would seek to move through the network and jump onto other targeted systems to achieve their primary objective. 
* The stealthier the technique used, the better. 
