This phase wraps up the journey of an adversary’s attack on an environment, where they have critical asset access and can fulfil their attack goals. These goals are usually geared toward compromising the confidentiality, integrity and availability (CIA) triad.

  
The tactics to be deployed by an attacker would include:

**Collection MITRE Tactic (TA0009)**
After all the hunting for access and assets, the adversary will be seeking to gather all the valuable data of interest. This, in turn, compromises the confidentiality of the data and would lead to the next attack stage, which is Exfiltration. The main target sources include drives, browsers, audio, video and email.

**Exfiltration (MITRE Tactic TA0010)**
To elevate their compromise, the adversary would seek to steal data, which would be packaged using encryption measures and compression to avoid any detection. The C2 channel and tunnel deployed in the earlier phases will come in handy during this process.

**Impact (MITRE Tactic TA0040)**
If the adversary seeks to compromise the integrity and availability of the data assets, they would manipulate, interrupt or destroy these assets. 
The goal would be to disrupt business and operational processes and may involve removing account access, disk wipes, and data encryption such as ransomware, defacement and denial of service (DoS) attacks.

**Objectives**
With all the power and access to the systems and network, the adversary would seek to achieve their strategic goal for the attack.

Example 1. If the attack was financially motivated, they may seek to encrypt files and systems with ransomware and ask for payment to release the data. Example 2. The attacker may seek to damage the reputation of the business, and they would release private and confidential information to the public. 