**Splunk has three main components: Indexer, Search Head, Forwarder**

# Indexer:
Splunk Indexer plays the main role in processing the data it receives from forwarders. It takes the data, normalizes it into field-value pairs, determines the datatype of the data, and stores them as events. Processed data is easy to search and analyze. 

# Search Head: 
Splunk Search Head is the place within the Search & Reporting App where users can search the indexed logs. When the user searches for a term or uses a Search language known as Splunk Search Processing Language, the request is sent to the indexer and the relevant events are returned in the form of field-value pairs.Search Head also provides the ability to transform the results into presentable tables, visualizations like pie-chart, bar-chart and column-chart. 


# Forwarder:
Forwarder is a lightweight agent installed on the endpoint intended to be monitored, and its main task is to collect the data and send it to the Splunk instance. 

It does not affect the endpoint's performance as it takes very few resources to process. 

Some of the key data sources are:
- Web server generating web traffic.
- Windows machine generating Windows Event Logs, *PowerShell, and *Sysmon data.

*PowerShell: a task automation and configuration management program from Microsoft, consisting of a command-line shell and the associated scripting language. 
*Sysmon data: System Monitor, which is a Windows system service and device driver developed by Microsoft that is designed to monitor and log various events happening within a Windows system.

- Linux host generating host-centric logs.
- Database generating DB connection requests, responses, and errors. 

# Answer the question below 
Q1. Which component is used to collect and send data over the Splunk instance? 
A1. Forwarder





# From this section, I learned that
1. Splunk has three main components: Indexer, Search Head, Forwarder. 
- "Indexer" is to process the data it receives from forwarders
- "Seach Head" is to search the indexed logs and get the result in a form of field-value pairs or presentable figures. 
- "Forwarder" is to collect the data and send it to the Splunk instance.  



