# Data in Splunk 
Splunk can ingest any data. As per the Splunk documentation, when data is added to Splunk, the data is processed and transformed into a series of individual events. 

The data sources can be event logs, website logs, firewall logs, etc.

Data sources are grouped into categories. Below is a chart listing from the Splunk documentation detailing each data source category. 
(View image: Screenshots/SIEM/02/Screenshot 2025-07-22 at 4.31.48 PM.png)



-------
This chapter will focus on VPN logs. 

From Add Data link - Upload, we can use Upload Option to upload the data from our local machine. Download the attached log file and upload it on Splunk.

It has a total of 5 steps to successfully upload the data.

1. Select Source -> Where we select the Log source.
2. Select Source Type -> Select what type of logs are being ingested.
3. Input Settings ->Select the index where these logs will be dumped and hostName to be associated with the logs.
4. Review -> Review all the gif
5. Done -> Final step, where the data is uploaded successfully and ready to be analyzed. 


----
there are A LOT more logs we can add to the Splunk instance, and Splunk supports various source types.



# Lab 2.4 
Download the attached log file "VPN_logs" and upload this file into the Splunk instance with the right source type.

Note: In case you are using the AttackBox, the file is available in the /root/Rooms/SplunkBasic/ directory. 

Q1. Upload the data attached to this task and create an index "VPN_Logs". How many events are present in the log file?
A1. 2862

* This is what I did: 
1. First downloaded json file. 
2. Then I went to Splunk and clicked Add Data - Upload (View image: Screenshots/SIEM/02/Screenshot 2025-07-22 at 4.48.41 PM.png)
3. Then I clicked Select File and Chose the json file. (View image: Screenshots/SIEM/02/Screenshot 2025-07-22 at 4.49.36 PM.png)
4. I clicked green bottn at the right top to Input Settings. 
Then I clicked blue-coloured "Create a new index" besides index. 
(Screenshots/SIEM/02/Screenshot 2025-07-22 at 4.52.18 PM.png)

5. and named it to "VPN_Logs", saved. 
(Screenshots/SIEM/02/Screenshot 2025-07-22 at 4.53.29 PM.png)


6. Changed the index from "Default" to "vpn_logs". 
(Screenshots/SIEM/02/Screenshot 2025-07-22 at 4.58.23 PM.png)

7. Keep clicking the green button at the top right on each screen, until the Submit button appears. Then, click the Submit button.

8. Then this screen is presented (Screenshots/SIEM/02/Screenshot 2025-07-22 at 5.03.00 PM.png).
Clicked "Start Searching" to proceed. 

9. Observed that there are 2,862 events. 
(View image: Screenshots/SIEM/02/Screenshot 2025-07-22 at 5.05.11 PM.png)


Q2. How many log events by the user Maleena are captured?
A2. 60 

* This is what I did: 
1. Clicked the 'UserName' field on the leftmost side and looked for 'Maleena'. Noticed that there are 60 entries for Maleena. 
(View image: Screenshots/SIEM/02/Screenshot 2025-07-22 at 5.07.18 PM.png)


Q3. What is the name associated with IP 107.14.182.38?
A3. Smith

* This is what I did: 
1. To find the name associated with IP 107.14.182.38, I can filter the results by the IP. I went to Search bar and added 
Source_ip="107.14.182.38" in the search. 
(View image: Screenshots/SIEM/02/Screenshot 2025-07-22 at 5.14.02 PM.png)

2. After clicking the search button (green search icon), I observed that there is only single user associated with this IP, "Smith". 
(View iamge: Screenshots/SIEM/02/Screenshot 2025-07-22 at 5.17.34 PM.png)


Q4. What is the number of events that originated from all countries except France?
A4. 2814

I needed to filter out France from the search across all countries, so I added Source_Country != "France" to the search bar and ran the search. I observed that there are 2,814 events not originating from France. 
(View image: Screenshots/SIEM/02/Screenshot 2025-07-22 at 5.21.37 PM.png) 


Q5. How many VPN Events were observed by the IP 107.3.206.58? 
A5. 14

Just like how I solved Q3, I went to Search bar and added 
Source_ip="107.3.206.58" in the search and observed there are 14 events. (View image: Screenshots/SIEM/02/Screenshot 2025-07-22 at 5.27.04 PM.png) 



## From this Lab, I learned... 
- How to upload and index data in Splunk: I successfully uploaded a JSON-formatted log file and created a new custom index (VPN_Logs).  
- How to use field-based search filters: By using fields like UserName, Source_ip, and Source_Country, I practiced building accurate and efficient queries to isolate specific data.  
- Basic Splunk search commands: I learned to use basic comparison operators (!=) and exact field matches to refine search results.  
- Overall, this lab improved my ability to find answers quickly from large datasets in Splunk. 
