## What is Weaponization? 
After a successful reconnaissance stage, "Megatron" would work on crafting a "weapon of destruction". 
He would prefer not to interact with the victim directly and, instead, he will create a "weaponizer" that, according to Lockheed Martin, combines malware and exploit into a deliverable payload. 

Most attackers usually use automated tools to generate the malware or refer to the DarkWeb to purchase the malware. 

More sophisticated actors or nation-sponsored APT (Advanced Persistent Threat Groups) would write their custom malware to make the malware sample unique and evade detection on the target.

 
**Some terminologies** 
Malware: a program or software that is designed to damage, disrupt, or gain unauthorized access to a computer.

Exploit: a program or a code that takes advantage of the vulnerability or flaw in the application or system.

Payload: a malicious code that the attacker runs on the system.

Macro: a group of commands that perform a specific task. They are like subroutines or functions that contain the code that most users use to automate routine tasks. (Malicious actorss tend to use them for malicious purposes and include them in Microsoft Office documents. )
 

# -------------------------

"Megatron" chooses to buy an already written payload from someone else in the DarkWeb, so that he can spend more time on the other phases. 

In the Weaponization phase, the attacker would:

1. Create an infected Microsoft Office document containing a malicious macro or VBA (Visual Basic for Applications) scripts.  
2. Create a malicious payload or a very sophisticated worm, implant it on the USB drives, and then distribute them in public. An example of the virus. 
3. Choose Command and Control (C2) techniques for executing the commands on the victim's machine or deliver more payloads. 
4. Select a backdoor implant (the way to access the computer system, which includes bypassing the security mechanisms).




# From this unit, I learned --- 
1. Waponization is phase where attackers "buy" payload in DarkWeb. I didn't know that payload can be traded in Dark web, because it sounds very illegal. Perhaps thats a reason why the trade is happening in DarkWeb.  