**Objective**
Verify that the login information is sent to HTTP POST in plaintext 

# Step 1:  Open the pcap file with WireShark. 
I used "http-basic-auth.pcap" file for detecting HTTP credentials. After downloading WireShark app, I simply clicked on the file then I could open the file on WireShark. This is what I first saw after opening the file (View image: Personal Projects/Credential Threat Detection & DNS Tunneling Analysis (Wireshark + MITRE)/Appendix/Screenshots/Screenshot 2025-08-05 at 7.16.20 PM.png).

* Read (Credit Theft Packet Analysis and MITRE Linked Project (Wireshark)/01. Data/ReadMe.md) for more information about this pcap file. 


# Step 2: Apply Display Filter to Find HTTP Authentication 
To identify where credentials are transmitted, I applied a Wireshark display filter to isolate HTTP authentication traffic.

**Filter used:** 
http.authorization 

-> This filter displays packets containing the 'Authorization' header.

(View image after applying this filter: CPersonal Projects/Credential Threat Detection & DNS Tunneling Analysis (Wireshark + MITRE)/Appendix/Screenshots/Screenshot 2025-08-05 at 7.22.20 PM.png)

I observed that all packets infos are starting from GET now. 

In HTTP Basic Authentication, this header includes base64-encoded credentials in this format: 'Authorization: Basic ENCODEDCREDENTIALS\r\n' 
 

I clicked on one of them and WireShark revealed the base64 string under the HTTP header section. Below is an example.
(View image: Personal Projects/Credential Threat Detection & DNS Tunneling Analysis (Wireshark + MITRE)/Appendix/Screenshots/Screenshot 2025-08-05 at 7.26.34 PM.png)
From the highligted part, I saw that the base64-encoded credentials of the packet that I clicked on is 'dGVzdDpmYWls'. 


#  Step 3: Decode the credentials 
Since base64 string is unreadble, I had to decode it using online decoder, CyberChef (https://gchq.github.io/CyberChef/).  

Then I figured out that 'dGVzdDpmYWls' meant 'test:fail", which means username is 'test' and password is 'fail'.

also, 
I could also double clicked the Authorization: line and the Wireshark revealed me the plain-text credentials for me. 

(View image - highlighted part: Personal Projects/Credential Threat Detection & DNS Tunneling Analysis (Wireshark + MITRE)/Appendix/Screenshots/Screenshot 2025-08-05 at 7.38.11 PM.png)

# Step 4: Analyze 
At this point, I realized that this is a sign of network sniffing vulnerability because the login credentials are sent in plaintext over HTTP, making it easily accessible to attackers intercepting network traffic. 
So anyone who intercepts this packet can immediately decode and read the credentials.

This is exactly the kind of described in MITRE ATT&CK technique T1040 (Network Sniffing). 

Now, I successfully captured a credential theft scenario,
where login information is sent in plaintext over HTTP.