# Step 5: Visualization 
**Objective** Summarize brute-force detection results using Splunk's visualization features to enhance analysis and communication. 

* Note- Pie and bar charts in Splunk require a simple structure — typically a single categorical field (e.g., SourceIP) and a numeric value (count).
Therefore, it is standard to use stats count by <one field> to generate visualizations.

For this step, I decided to use SourceIP as the grouping field, to identify which IPs were attempting the most login and experienced failures. 

**What I Did**  
I ran this query below: 
source="sample_windows_event_log.json" host="Jinnys-MacBook-Pro.local" index="splunk_project_index" sourcetype="_json" 
| spath
| search EventID=4625
| rex field=Message "(?s)Account For Which Logon Failed:.*?Account Name:\t(?<AccountName>[^\r\n]+)"
| rex field=Message "Source Network Address:\t(?<SourceIP>\S+)"
| stats count by SourceIP
| sort -count 


and I clicked on Visualization tab and selected different chart types to find the most intuitive one. 

**Key Visualizations:**
* Line Chart: (View chart: Personal Projects/Brute-force login attempt detection and response project (Splunk)/Windows_Event_Logs/Appendix/Screenshots/Screenshot 2025-08-04 at 2.47.02 PM.png) 

From this chart, I observed:
- A total of 11 unique SourceIP addresses attempted brute-force logins.
- The most aggressive attack was from ip address 203.0.113.76, with 66 failed login attempts using various Account Names. 

- The least aggressive attack was from ip address 8.8.8.8, with 34 login attempts using various Account Names. 
- There were three attackers, 162.243.187.132, 185.199.108.45, 51.79.19.58, who attempted the same number of login attempts (40 counts - Look at the flat line)
 


* Pie Chart: 
(View chart: Personal Projects/Brute-force login attempt detection and response project (Splunk)/Windows_Event_Logs/Appendix/Screenshots/Screenshot 2025-08-04 at 3.15.16 PM.png )


From this chart, I observed:
- Attacks were spread across 11 different IP addresses. While 203.0.113.76 and 203.0.113.45 have slightly larger slices, the differences between each portions are not extreme. This suggests distributed brute-force attempts rather than a single or few persistent attacker. 
- The use of distinct color segments helps visually confirm that the attack volume is relatively balanced across all IPs.
- Since the counts are close, this may indicate the use of automated tools or bots rotating through multiple IPs to avoid detection. 


=> However, when I reviewed the Line Chart, I noticed that the number of attack attempts varied significantly across different source IP addresses.
This same pattern was also visible in the Bar and Column charts. (Bar chart: Personal Projects/Brute-force login attempt detection and response project (Splunk)/Windows_Event_Logs/Appendix/Screenshots/Screenshot 2025-08-04 at 3.06.45 PM.png , Column chart: Personal Projects/Brute-force login attempt detection and response project (Splunk)/Windows_Event_Logs/Appendix/Screenshots/Screenshot 2025-08-04 at 3.07.24 PM.png)
Although all of these charts represent the same data, they can lead to slightly different interpretations depending on the visualization used.
This made me realize how important it is to choose the right chart type when analyzing and reporting on attack behavior.

In this case, I believe the Line Chart or Bar Chart is more appropriate than the Pie Chart or Column chart.
The difference between the most aggressive attacker (66 failed login attempts) and the least (34 attempts) is quite significant, so it's inaccurate to say that the attacks were evenly distributed across all IP addresses. 
 