# Step 6: Time-Based Attack Pattern Analysis 
**Objective** So far, I focused on who (what ip adddresses) attacked and how much each attacked over time. However, this step is to identify when the failed login attempts were most concentrated. (burst or persistent?)
This type of time-based analysis is important when designing alert thresholds and identifying peak attack periods in real-world security operations.

In this case, my dataset (sample_windows_event_log.json) contains an EventTime field, so I was able to use timechart without needing to manually convert the timestamp using eval _time.
This below is the query that I ran. 

**SPL Query for Time-Based Analysis**
source="sample_windows_event_log.json" host="Jinnys-MacBook-Pro.local" index="splunk_project_index" sourcetype="_json"
| spath
| search EventID=4625
| rex field=Message "(?s)Account For Which Logon Failed:.*?Account Name:\t(?<AccountName>[^\r\n]+)"
| rex field=Message "Source Network Address:\t(?<SourceIP>\S+)"
| timechart span=1m count


timechart span=1m count -> This query generates a time-series visualization that shows how many failed login attempts (Event ID 4625) occurred each minute.

(View image after runnng this query: Personal Project/ Brute-force login attempt detection and response project (Splunk)/Windows_Event_Logs/Appendix/Screenshots/Screenshot 2025-08-04 at 3.50.12 PM.png )

From this line chart, I observed: 
- The failed login attempts occurred consistently over the entire 1-hour period.This suggests a persistent brute-force rather than a short burst.
- The number of failed login attempts fluctuates per minute, ranging roughly from 3 to 10 attempts per minute.
- There are clear spikes from time to time. The highest spike is at 12:11, hitting 10 counts.
- There are no significant idle periods; this indicates that the attacker was continuously active, likely using a scripted attack tool.
- The regularity and repetition of attack waves imply the use of automation, such as password-spraying scripts or botnets.  