## How does the life of the Junior Security Analyst look like? 
Junior Security Analyst is working with various log sources from different tools.  


They monitor the network traffic, including IPS (Intrusion Prevention System) and IDS (Intrusion Detection System) alerts, suspicious emails, extract the forensics data to analyze and detect the potential attacks, use open-source intelligence for appropriate decisions on the alerts.

Imagine you (myself) have sucessfully managed / remediated the threat. 
- This is exciting and rewarding! though it may have taken hours, days, weeks, or even more depending on the scale of the incident. 


How detection, containment, and remediation would work? - I can't wait to learn!

## Lab 
With Static Site Lab, I was able to expereince a little bit of security monitoring tool. 
- Check [Screenshots/2025-06-30_12.25.54_PM.png]  

I could detect from Alert Log that there was a malicious activity on April 16t, 2024, Unauthorized connection attempt detected from IP address 221.181.185.159 to port 22. Then I got to know general steps taken after this detection 



# From this lab, I learned that.. 
There are many open-source databases out there like AbuseIPDB, Cisco Talos Intelligence, where you can perform a reputation and location check for the IP address. Most security analysts use these tools to aid them with alert investigations. You can also make the Internet safer by reporting the malicious IPs, for example, on AbuseIPDB. 

After determining if the IP addess is malicious, then the issue should be escalated to a staff member. 

This issue, "Unauthorized connection attempt", should be escalated to SOC Team Lead, and after getting permission, I can proceed and implement the block rule. 

After blocking it, I could see a message that malicious actor left. "THM{UNTIL-WE-MEET-AGAIN}". - I noticed that malicious actor could leave message to defenders of the company's SOC team.


--------------------------------------- 

## From this chapter, I learned that 

1. Triaging isn't just looking at alerts —  it's about understanding why they matter. 

2. Asking the right questions is crucial. I should stay curious about why, how, and when an event occurred.

3. I now have a clearer understanding of what a junior security analyst does. They're not responsible for full remediation but play a key role in identifying and escalating significant events to help protect the organization's assets more effectively.

 