# Core Windows Processes
How the Windows Operating System works? (Without this prior knowledge, differentiating an outlier from a haystack of events could be problematic. )

To learn more about Core Windows Processes, a built-in Windows tool named Task Manager may aid me in understanding the underlying processes inside a Windows machine. 

# What is Task Manager? 
Task Manager is a built-in GUI-based Windows utility that allows users to see what is running on the Windows system. It also provides information on resource usage, such as how much each process utilizes CPU and memory. When a program is not responding, the Task Manager is used to terminate the process. 


Below is a summary of running processes that are considered normal behaviour.-- 

Note: ">" symbol represents a parent-child relationship. e.g, System (Parent) > smss.exe (Child). This relationship helps  understanding who started what.

System
System > smss.exe
csrss.exe
wininit.exe
wininit.exe > services.exe
wininit.exe > services.exe > svchost.exe
lsass.exe
winlogon.exe
explorer.exe


In addition, the processes with no depiction of a parent-child relationship should not have a Parent Process under normal circumstances, except for the System process, which should only have System Idle Process (0) as its parent process. 


# Sysinternals
Sysinternals are available toolset for analyzing running artefacts (e.g, Task Manager) in the backend of a Windows machine.

The Sysinternals tools are a compilation of over 70+ Windows-based tools. Each of the tools falls into one of the following categories:

File and Disk Utilities
Networking Utilities
Process Utilities
Security Utilities
System Information
Miscellaneous 

There are two most used Sysinternals tools for endpoint investigation: 
1. TCPView - Networking Utility tool.
2. Process Explorer - Process Utility tool. 

# TCPView 
(official definition) TCPView is a Windows program that 
1. will show you detailed listings of all TCP and UDP endpoints on your system, including the local and remote addresses and state of TCP connections. 
2. On Windows Server 2008, Vista, and XP, TCPView also reports the name of the process that owns the endpoint (who creates the connection) 
3. TCPView provides a more informative and conveniently presented subset that Netstat program (which ships with Windows) also provides. 
The TCPView download includes Tcpvcon, a command-line version with the same functionality  

* Netstat program: a command-line tool used to view network connections, routing tables, interface stats, and more on a system. It's available on Windows, Linux, and macOS  

Every connection initiated by a process is listed by the tool, which may aid in correlating the network events executed concurrently.

# Process Explorer
(official definition) The Process Explorer display consists of two sub-windows. 
1. The top window always shows a list of the currently active processes, including the names of their owning accounts, whereas 
2. the information displayed in the bottom window depends on the mode that Process Explorer is in: if it is in handle mode, you'll see the handles that the process selected in the top window has opened; if Process Explorer is in DLL mode you'll see the DLLs and memory-mapped files that the process has loaded. 



## In Short,.. 
TCPView shows which processes are making network connections (like talking to the internet). 
Process Explorer shows all running processes and what files or services they’re using.


# Answer the questions below, 
Q1. What is the normal parent process of services.exe?
A1. wininit.exe 
 
Refer to: wininit.exe > services.exe
wininit.exe > services.exe > svchost.exe 

Q2. What is the name of the network utility tool introduced in this task? 
A2. TCPView