# Event Correlation
identifies significant relationships from multiple log sources such as application logs, endpoint logs, and network logs.

Event correlation 
It deals with identifying significant artefacts *co-existing* from different log sources and connecting each related artefact. 

For example, a network connection log may exist in various log sources such as Sysmon logs (Event ID 3: Network Connection) and Firewall Logs. 
The Firewall log may provide the source and destination IP, source and destination port, protocol, and the action taken. 
The Sysmon logs may give the process that invoked the network connection and the user running the process.

With this information, we can connect the dots of each artefact from the two data sources:
- Source and Destination IP
- Source and Destination Port
- Action Taken
- Protocol
- Process name
- User Account
- Machine Name

=> Event correlation can build the puzzle pieces to complete the exact scenario from an investigation.


# Baselining
the process of knowing what is expected to be normal. 
In terms of endpoint security monitoring, it requires a vast amount of data-gathering to establish the standard behaviour of user activities, network traffic across infrastructure, and processes running on all machines owned by the organization. With this as a reference, users can quickly determine the outliers that could threaten the organization. 

Below is a sample list of baseline and unusual activities-- 
Baseline1: The organization's employees are in London, and the regular working hours are between 9 AM and 6 PM.
Unusual Activity1: A user has authenticated via VPN connecting from Singapore at 3 AM. 

Baseline2: A single workstation is assigned to each employee.
Unusual Activity2: A user has attempted to authenticate to multiple workstations.

Baseline3: Employees can only access selected websites on their workstations, such as OneDrive, SharePoint, and other O365 applications.
Unusual Activity3: A user has uploaded a 3GB file on Google Drive.

Baseline4: Only selected applications are installed on workstations, mainly Microsoft Applications such as Microsoft Word, Excel, Teams, OneDrive and Google Chrome.
Unusual Activity4: A process named firefox.exe has been observed running on multiple employee workstations. 



# Investigation Activity 
(View images: Screenshots/Endpoint Security Monitoring/01/Screenshot 2025-07-21 at 3.28.38 PM.png, Screenshots/Endpoint Security Monitoring/01/Screenshot 2025-07-21 at 3.29.20 PM.png)
Instructions: Identify the abnormal running process. You may open the Baseline Document created by the security team. 

1. I observed that there are csrss.exe
smss.exe
wininit.exe
winlogon.exe
explorer.exe
svchost.exe 
in Baselined Processes.docx and I knew from Unit 1.2 Note that 
running processes that are considered normal behaviour are these below. 

System
System > smss.exe
csrss.exe
wininit.exe
wininit.exe > services.exe
wininit.exe > services.exe > svchost.exe
lsass.exe
winlogon.exe
explorer.exe  

The only process that was not in this list was beacon.exe, so I clicked that process. 
(View image: Screenshots/Endpoint Security Monitoring/01/Screenshot 2025-07-21 at 3.32.59 PM.png)

Instruction: Based on the identified malicious process, determine the malicious network traffic. You may refer to your notes. 

2. Remote Address 59.23.48.195 was suspicious because its process name was beacon.exe which I decided malicious, so clicked it. 

Instruction: Find all machines affected using the discovered IP address and eradicate the threat. 
(view image: Screenshots/Endpoint Security Monitoring/01/Screenshot 2025-07-21 at 3.38.31 PM.png)

3. I searched for 59.23.48.195, and then remediated the machines. 
(View image: Screenshots/Endpoint Security Monitoring/01/Screenshot 2025-07-21 at 3.39.29 PM.png)
