## What is Intrusion Detection System (IDS)? 
IDS is a passive monitoring solution for detecting possible malicious activities/patterns, abnormal incidents, and policy violations. It is responsible for generating alerts for each suspicious event. 


*Two main types of IDS systems*
1. Network Intrusion Detection System (NIDS) - NIDS monitors the traffic flow from various areas of the network to investigate the traffic on the entire subnet. If a signature is identified, an alert is created.

2. Host-based Intrusion Detection System (HIDS) - HIDS monitors the traffic flow from a single endpoint device to investigate the traffic on a particular device. If a signature is identified, an alert is created.


## What is Intrusion Prevention System (IPS)?
IPS is an active protecting solution for preventing possible malicious activities/patterns, abnormal incidents, and policy violations. It is responsible for stopping/preventing/terminating the suspicious event as soon as the detection is performed.


*Four main types of IPS systems*
1. Network Intrusion Prevention System (NIPS) - NIPS monitors the traffic flow from various areas of the network to protect the traffic on the entire subnet. If a signature is identified, the connection is terminated.

2. Behaviour-based Intrusion Prevention System (Network Behaviour Analysis - NBA) - Behaviour-based systems monitor the traffic flow from various areas of the network to protect the traffic on the entire subnet. If an anomaly is identified, the connection is terminated. 

It works similar to NIPS, but differences: Behaviour based systems require a training period (also known as "baselining") to learn the normal traffic and differentiate the malicious traffic and threats. (Normal/Abnormal) -> This model provides more efficient results against new and unknown threats, and it is crucial to avoid any false positives. In case of any security breach during the training period, the results will be highly problematic. Another critical point is to ensure that the system is well trained to recognise benign activities. 

3. Wireless Intrusion Prevention System (WIPS) - WIPS monitors the traffic flow from of wireless network to protect the wireless traffic and stop possible attacks launched from there. If a signature is identified, the connection is terminated.

4. Host-based Intrusion Prevention System (HIPS) - HIPS actively protects the traffic flow from a single endpoint device to investigate the traffic on a particular device. If a signature is identified, the connection is terminated.
HIPS working mechanism is similar to HIDS. The difference is while HIDS creates alerts for threats, HIPS stops the threats by terminating the connection.



## Detection/Prevention Techniques
Three main detection and prevention techniques used in IDS and IPS solutions;

1. Signature-Based

Approach: This technique relies on rules that identify the specific patterns of the known malicious behaviour. This model helps detect known threats. 


2. Behaviour-Based

Approach: This technique identifies new threats with new patterns that pass through signatures. The model compares the known/normal with unknown/abnormal behaviours. This model helps detect previously unknown or new threats.


3. Policy-Based

Approach: This technique compares detected activities with system configuration and security policies. This model helps detect policy violations.




## Summary

IDS can identify threats but require user assistance to stop them.
IPS can identify and block the threats with less user assistance at the detection time.


# What does Snort do here? 
Snort can be deployed inline to stop the packets. It has three primary uses as a packet sniffer like tcpdump, as a packet logger — which is useful for network traffic debugging, or it can be used as a full-blown network intrusion prevention system.: 
1. Sniffer Mode - Read IP packets and prompt them in the console application.
2. Packet Logger Mode - Log all IP packets (inbound and outbound) that visit the network.
3. NIDS (Network Intrusion Detection System)  and NIPS (Network Intrusion Prevention System) Modes - Log/drop the packets that are deemed as malicious according to the user-defined rules. 
 

Capabilities of Snort;

Live traffic analysis
Attack and probe detection
Packet logging
Protocol analysis
Real-time alerting
Modules & plugins
Pre-processors
Cross-platform support! (Linux & Windows)
 
# Answer the questions below: 
Q. Which IDS or IPS type can help you stop the threats on a local machine?
A. HIPS 

Q. Which IDS or IPS type can help you detect threats on a local network?
A. NIDS

Q. Which IDS or IPS type can help you detect the threats on a local machine?
A. HIDS

Q. Which IDS or IPS type can help you stop the threats on a local network?
A. NIPS

Q. Which described solution works by detecting anomalies in the network?
A. NBA

Q. According to the official description of the snort, what kind of NIPS is it?
A. full-blown

Q. NBA training period is also known as ... 
A. baselining