Here is more details about SIEM- 

# Dashboard
Dashboards are important components of any SIEM. SIEM presents the data for analysis after being normalized and ingested. The summary of these analyses is presented in the form of actionable insights with the help of multiple dashboards. 

Each SIEM solution comes with some default dashboards and provides an option for custom Dashboard creation. 

Some of the information that can be found in a dashboard:
-Alert Highlights
-System Notification
-Health Alert
-List of Failed Login Attempts
-Events Ingested Count
-Rules triggered
-Top Domains Visited

An example of a Default dashboard in Qradar SIEM is here: 
Screenshots/SIEM/01/Screenshot 2025-07-21 at 6.57.33 PM.png


# Correlation Rules
Correlation rules play an important role in the timely detection of threats allowing analysts to take action on time. 

Correlation rules are pretty much logical expressions set to be triggered. 

Below are few examples of correlation rules:
-If a User gets 5 failed Login Attempts in 10 seconds -> Raise an alert for Multiple Failed Login Attempts
-If login is successful after multiple failed login attempts -> Raise an alert for Successful Login After multiple Login Attempts
-A rule is set to alert every time a user plugs in a USB (Useful if USB is restricted as per the company policy)
-If outbound traffic is > 25 MB -> Raise an alert to potential Data exfiltration Attempt (Usually it depends on the company policy)

# How a correlation rule is created
<Use-Case 1>
Adversaries tend to remove the logs during the post-exploitation phase to remove their tracks. A unique Event ID 104 is logged every time a user tries to remove or clear event logs. 

To create a rule based on this activity, this condition can be set -- 

Rule: If the Log source is WinEventLog AND EventID is 104 -> Trigger an alert 
"Event Log Cleared"


<Use-Case 2>  
Adversaries use commands like *whoami after the exploitation/privilege escalation phase. The following Fields will be helpful to include in the rule.

*whoami: (Command) shows which user account is currently executing the session. 

-Log source: Identify the log source capturing the event logs
-Event ID: which Event ID is associated with Process Execution activity? In this case, event id 4688 will be helpful.
-NewProcessName: which process name will be helpful to include in the rule?
Rule: If Log Source is WinEventLog AND EventCode is 4688, and NewProcessName contains whoami, then Trigger an ALERT WHOAMI command Execution DETECTED

Notee- The reason why it is important to have normalized logs ingested: Correlation rules keep an eye on the values of certain fields to get triggered. 


# Alert Investigation
When monitoring SIEM, analysts spend most of their time on dashboards as it displays various key details about the network in a very summarized way. 

Once an alert is triggered, the events/flows associated with the alert are examined, and the rule is checked to see which conditions are met. 
Based on the investigation, the analyst determines if it's a True or False positive. Some of the actions that are performed after the analysis are:

-Alert is False Alarm. It may require tuning the rule to avoid similar False positives from occurring again.
-Alert is True Positive. Perform further investigation.
-Contact the asset owner to inquire about the activity.
-Suspicious activity is confirmed. Isolate the infected host.
-Block the suspicious IP.


# Answer the questions below: 
Q1. Which Event ID is generated when event logs are removed? 
A1. 104

Q2. What type of alert may require tuning? 
A2. False Alarm