In the static lab attached, a sample dashboard and events are displayed. When a suspicious activity happens, an Alert is triggered, which means some events match the condition of some rule already configured. 

Complete the lab and answer the following questions. 

This is what I first saw when I opened the site (activity): Screenshots/SIEM/01/Screenshot 2025-07-21 at 7.15.27 PM.png 


Q1. Click on Start Suspicious Activity, which process caused the alert?
A1. cudominer.exe

This is what I saw after clicking the 'Start Suspicious Activity'
(View image: Screenshots/SIEM/01/Screenshot 2025-07-21 at 7.16.14 PM.png)
I observed that cudominer.exe process was causing the alert. 

Q2. Find the event that caused the alert, which user was responsible for the process execution?
A2. Chris.fort

Q3. What is the hostname of the suspect user?
A3. HR_02  

After clicking the alert, I could find that Chris.fort used cudominer.exe with the host name HR_02 
(View image: Screenshots/SIEM/01/Screenshot 2025-07-21 at 7.23.31 PM.png)

Then I saw this screen: 
Screenshots/SIEM/01/Screenshot 2025-07-21 at 7.24.40 PM.png
Screenshots/SIEM/01/Screenshot 2025-07-21 at 7.24.59 PM.png

Q4.Examine the rule and the suspicious process; which term matched the rule that caused the alert?
A4. Miner 
I got the alert message that Potential CryptoMiner Activity Observed, and I've got the rule like this: Screenshots/SIEM/01/Screenshot 2025-07-21 at 7.24.40 PM.png
Therefore, Miner OR Crypt is the term that matched the rule that caused the alert. 



Q5. What is the best option that represents the event? Choose from the following:

- False-Positive

- True-Positive

A5. True-positive 
I chose True-positive and isolate the host because the SIEM correctly alerted malicious activity.  


# From this Lab, I learned.. 
1. How SIEM alerts are triggered by specific rule conditions.
2. How to investigate alerts by identifying the related process, user, and host involved in the activity.
3. How to classify alerts (True Positive vs False Positive). I understood how to differentiate between false alarms and legitimate threats. 
4. The importance of reviewing detection rules to better understand the context of alerts.

Reflection:
This lab helped me better understand how SIEM tools work in real scenarios. It was interesting to see how configured rule can reveal serious threats. I also realized how important it is to not just rely on alerts, but to investigate further and respond correctly. It made me feel more confident in handling security incidents step by step.