## What does CTI Standards & Frameworks do? 
Standards and frameworks provide structures to rationalise the distribution and use of threat intel across industries. They also allow for common terminology, which helps in collaboration and communication. 

These below are some essential standards and frameworks commonly used.

# MITRE ATT&CK
The ATT&CK framework is a knowledge base of adversary behaviour, focusing on the indicators and tactics. Security analysts can use the information to be thorough while investigating and tracking adversarial behaviour. 


# TAXII
The Trusted Automated eXchange of Indicator Information (TAXII). It defines protocols for securely exchanging threat intel to have near real-time detection, prevention and mitigation of threats. 
The protocol supports two sharing models:
    * Collection: Threat intel is collected and hosted by a producer upon request by users using a request-response model.
    * Channel: Threat intel is pushed to users from a central server through a publish-subscribe model.


# STIX
STIX is Structured Threat Information Expression - a language developed for the "specification, capture, characterisation and communication of standardised cyber threat information". 

It provides defined relationships between sets of threat info such as observables, indicators, adversary TTPs, attack campaigns, and more.


# Cyber Kill Chain
Developed by Lockheed Martin, the Cyber Kill Chain breaks down adversary actions into steps. This breakdown helps analysts and defenders identify which stage-specific activities occurred when investigating an attack. 


# The Diamond Model
The diamond model looks at intrusion analysis and tracking attack groups over time. It focuses on four key areas, each representing a different point on the diamond. 

These are:
*Adversary*: The focus is on the threat actor behind an attack and allows analysts to identify the motive behind the attack.

*Victim*: The opposite end of adversary looks at an individual, group or organisation affected by an attack.

*Infrastructure*: The adversaries' tools, systems, and software to conduct their attack are the main focus. Additionally, the victim's systems would be crucial to providing information about the compromise.

*Capabilities*: The focus is on the adversary's approach to reaching its goal. This looks at the means of exploitation and the TTPs implemented across the attack timeline


# An example of the diamond model in play
involves an adversary targeting a victim using phishing attacks to obtain sensitive information and compromise their system. As a threat intelligence analyst, the model allows you to pivot along its properties to produce a complete picture of an attack and correlate indicators. 



## From this unit, I learned.. 
1. CTI standards and frameworks help everyone speak the same language when it comes to threat intelligence. This makes sharing and collaboration across teams and organizations much easier and more effective.

2. The MITRE ATT&CK framework stood out to me because it maps out real-world attacker behaviors. I can see how helpful it would be for tracking and responding to threats in a structured way.

3. I learned that STIX and TAXII are used to share threat intelligence in a standardized and automated way, which is super useful for real-time defense. 