# Network Security - Control  
There are two Network Security's essential concerns, which are 
1. Authentication 
2. Authorisation 

->  There are a variety of tools, technologies, and approaches to ensure and measure implementations of these two key concepts and go beyond to provide continuity and reliability. Network security operations contain *three base control levels (Physical/Technical/Administrative)* to ensure the maximum available security management.


There are two main approaches and multiple elements under these control levels. 
** Access Control: The starting point of Network Security. It is a set of controls to ensure authentication and authorisation. 

** Threat Control: Detecting and preventing anomalous/malicious activities on the network. It contains both internal (trusted) and external traffic data probes. 

* The key elements of Access Control
- Firewall Protection: Controls incoming and outgoing network traffic with predetermined security rules.  
- Network Access Control (NAC): Controls the devices' suitability before access to the network.  
- Identity and Access Management (IAM): Controls and manages the asset identities and user access to data systems and resources over the network.
- Load Balancing: Controls the resource usage to distribute (based on metrics) tasks over a set of resources and improve overall data processing flow. 
- Network Segmentation: Creates and controls network ranges and segmentation to isolate the users' access levels, group assets with common functionalities, and improve the protection of sensitive/internal devices/data in a safer network.
- Virtual Private Networks (VPN): Creates and controls encrypted communication between devices (typically for secure remote access) over the network (including communications over the internet). 
- Zero Trust Model: Suggests configuring and implementing the access and permissions at a minimum level. "Never trust, always verify" mindset. 


* The key element of Threat Control
- Intrusion Detection and Prevention (IDS/IPS): Inspects the traffic and creates alerts (IDS) or resets the connection (IPS) when detecting an anomaly/threat.
- Data Loss Prevention (DLP): Inspects the traffic and blocks the extraction of sensitive data.
- Endpoint Protection: Protecting all kinds of endpoints and appliances that connect to the network by using a multi-layered approach like encryption, antivirus, antimalware, DLP, and IDS/IPS.
- Cloud Security: Protecting cloud/online-based systems resources from threats and data leakage by applying suitable countermeasures like VPN and data encryption.
- Security Information and Event Management (SIEM): Technology that helps threat detection, compliance, and security incident management, through available data (logs and traffic statistics) by using event and context analysis to identify anomalies, threats, and vulnerabilities.
- Security Orchestration Automation and Response (SOAR): Technology that helps coordinate and automates tasks between various people, tools, and data within a single platform to identify anomalies, threats, and vulnerabilities.  
- Network Traffic Analysis & Network Detection and Response: Inspecting network traffic or traffic capture to identify anomalies and threats. 


## Typical Network Security Management Operation
* Deployment: 				
Device and software installation
Initial configuration
Automation

* Configuration: 
Feature configuration
Initial network access configuration

* Management: 
Security policy implementation
NAT and VPN implementation
Threat mitigation

* Monitoring: 
System monitoring
User activity monitoring
Threat monitoring
Log and traffic sample capturing

* Maintenance: 
Upgrades
Security updates
Rule adjustments
Licence management
Configuration updates



## Managed Security Services
Not every organisation has enough resources to create dedicated groups for specific security domains due to their reasonable reasons, and here, Managed Security Services (MSS) come up to fulfil the required effort to ensure/enhance security needs. 

*What is MSS?*
MSS are services that have been outsourced to service providers. These service providers are called Managed Security Service Providers (MSSPs). Today, most MSS are time and cost effective, can be conducted in-house or outsourced, are easy to engage, and ease the management process. 
There are various elements of MSS, and Below is the most common ones. 

- Network Penetration Testing: Assessing network security by simulating external/internal attacker techniques to breach the network. 
- Vulnerability Assessment: Assessing network security by discovering and analysing vulnerabilities in the environment. 
- Incident Response: An organised approach to addressing and managing a security breach. It contains a set of actions to identify, contain, and eliminate incidents. 
- Behavioural Analysis: An organised approach to addressing system and user behaviours, creating baselines and traffic profiles for specific patterns to detect anomalies, threats, vulnerabilities, and attacks. 


## Answer the Questions 
Q. Which Security Control Level covers contain creating security policies? 
A. Administrative 

Q. Which Access Control element works with data metrics to manage data flow?
A. Load balancing 

Q. Which technology helps correlate different tool outputs and data sources?
A. SOAR 

