I first accessed Splunk official website, signed up and installed Splunk app. (https://www.splunk.com/en_us/download/splunk-enterprise/thank-you-enterprise.html)


There is a tutorial from offical website(https://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/8.1.2/SearchTutorial/NavigatingSplunk), so I read this too to better understand this tool. 

This is what I could see in my browser when I activated the Splunk from my Desktop: 
(View image: Screenshots/SIEM/02/Screenshot 2025-07-22 at 4.13.40 PM.png)


* This Note is based on TryHackMe's walkthrough: 
Let's look at each section, or panel, that makes up the home screen.

# Splunk Bar 
The top panel is the Splunk Bar. 
In the Splunk Bar, you can see system-level messages ( Messages ), configure the Splunk instance ( Settings ), review the progress of jobs ( Activity ), miscellaneous information such as tutorials ( Help ), and a search feature ( Find ). 

The ability to switch between installed Splunk apps instead of using the Apps panel can be achieved from the Splunk Bar. 


# Apps Panel 
In this panel, you can see the apps installed for the Splunk instance. 
The default app for every Splunk installation is Search & Reporting . 

# Explore Splunk 
This panel contains quick links to add data to the Splunk instance, add new Splunk apps, and access the Splunk documentation. 

# Splunk Dashboard 
By default, no dashboards are displayed. You can choose from a range of dashboards readily available within your Splunk instance. You can select a dashboard from the dropdown menu or by visiting the dashboards listing page . 
You can also create dashboards and add them to the Home Dashboard. The dashboards you create can be viewed isolated from the other dashboards by clicking on the Yours tab. 


# Answer the question below: 
Q1. In the Add Data tab, which option is used to collect data from files and ports?
A1. Monitor 

(View image: Screenshots/SIEM/02/Screenshot 2025-07-22 at 4.30.14 PM.png)
