# Level title/ Pain to Attacker 
🔵 Hash Values / Very Low

## What is Hash? 
As per Microsoft, the hash value is a numeric value of a fixed length that uniquely identifies data. A hash value is the result of a hashing algorithm. The following are some of the most common hashing algorithms: 

MD5 (Message Digest, defined by RFC 1321) - NOT considered cryptographically secure. 

SHA-1 (Secure Hash Algorithm 1, defined by RFC 3174) - NIST deprecated the use of SHA-1 in 2011 and banned its use for digital signatures at the end of 2013 based on it being susceptible to brute-force attacks.

SHA-2 (Secure Hash Algorithm 2) - SHA-2 Hashing Algorithm was designed by The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) and the National Security Agency (NSA) in 2001 to replace SHA-1. SHA-2 has many variants, and arguably the most common is SHA-256.  


**A hash is not considered to be cryptographically secure if two files have the same hash value or digest.**

Security professionals usually use the hash values to gain insight into a specific malware sample, a malicious or a suspicious file, and as a way to uniquely identify and reference the malicious artifact.

Various online tools can be used to do hash lookups like VirusTotal and Metadefender Cloud - OPSWAT.

**It becomes very easy to spot malicious file if we have the has in our arsenal**
- However, an attacker can also trivially produce a different hash vale even with a single bit. 


## Mini-Lab 2.1 
From this file (check [[Screenshots/02/2.1/Screenshot 2025-06-30 at 1.05.46 PM.png]), I could find that the file name of the hash "b8ef959a9176aef07fdca8705254a163b50b49a17217a4ff0107487f59d4a35d" is "Sales_Receipt 5606.xls". 


I saw that the file name is shown right below the hash value from the tool. 
(Check [Screenshots/02/2.1/Screenshot 2025-06-30 at 1.05.46 PM (2).png] to see where I found it. )

