# Level title/ Pain to Attacker  
🟡 Domain Names / Medium

## What are Domain names? 
Simple definition is mapping of an IP address to a strring of text. 

In a security perspective: 
Domain names are hard to change because they would most likely need to purchase the domain, register it and modify DNS record. 
However, many DNS providers have loose standards and provide APIs which makes attackers to change the domain easily. 

** New term! 
* C2 (Command and Control Infrastructure): a set of programs used to communicate with a victim machine. -more advanced than a reverse Shell, often communicate via common network protocols, like HTTP, HTTPS, and DNS.  

* Punycode: attack that redirect users to a malicious domai that seems legitmate at fist glance. It converts words that cannot be written in ASCII




**KEY INSIGHT**
"To detect malicious domains, proxy logs or web server logs can be used"
* proxy server: a system or router that provides a gateway between users and the internet. 

Attackers usually hide the malicious domains under URL shorteners which is a tool that creates a short and unique URL that will redirect to the specific website specified during the initial step of setting up the URL Shortener link.  


# Lab 2.3 
Any.run is a sandboxing service! 
From its service, I could check 
1. HTTP requests tab- dropper / callback (resources being retrieved from a webserver), 
2. Connections tab - C2 traffic, uploading/downloaidng files over FTP etc 
3. DNS Requests tab -  to check for internet connectivity. 
 
Check [Screenshots/02/2.3/Screenshot 2025-06-30 at 2.19.50 PM.png] to see how the report looks like 

From these tabs, I could identify the first suspicious domain request was craftingalegacy.com

(See [Screenshots/02/2.3/Screenshot 2025-06-30 at 2.22.32 PM.png] to check where I found it.)       



# Here is what I learned from this section.. 
1. Domain names are useful for both users and attackers. 
2. Malicious domains are often hidden using URL shorteners. 
3. Punycode attacks trick users into visiting fake websites. 
4. Any.run sandbox helps detect threats through multiple views
