## What is Cisco Talos Intelligence? 
IT and Cybersecurity companies collect massive amounts of information that could be used for threat analysis and intelligence. Being one of those companies, Cisco assembled a large team of security practitioners called Cisco Talos to provide actionable intelligence, visibility on indicators, and protection against emerging threats through data collected from their products. 

The solution is accessible as Talos Intelligence. (https://talosintelligence.com/)


*Cisco Talos encompasses six key teams:*

1. Threat Intelligence & Interdiction: Quick correlation and tracking of threats provide a means to turn simple IOCs into context-rich intel.
2. Detection Research: Vulnerability and malware analysis is performed to create rules and content for threat detection.
3. Engineering & Development: Provides the maintenance support for the inspection engines and keeps them up-to-date to identify and triage emerging threats.
4. Vulnerability Research & Discovery: Working with service and software vendors to develop repeatable means of identifying and reporting security vulnerabilities.
5. Communities: Maintains the image of the team and the open-source solutions.
6. Global Outreach: Disseminates intelligence to customers and the security community through publications.

More information about Cisco Talos can be found on their White Paper (https://www.talosintelligence.com/docs/Talos_WhitePaper.pdf)



## Explanation about Talos Dashboard
After accessing the open-source solution, there is a reputation lookup dashboard with a worldmap that shows an overview of email traffic with indicators of whether the emails are legitimate, spam or malware across numerous countries. I could check more information associated with IP and hostname addresses, volume on the day and the type after clicking on any marker. 

There are several tabs that provide different types of intelligence resources at the top. 

# Primary tab 1 - Vulnerability Information 
: Disclosed and zero-day vulnerability reports marked with CVE numbers and CVSS scores. Details of the vulnerabilities reported are provided when the user selects a specific report, including the timeline taken to get the report published. Microsoft vulnerability advisories are also provided, with the applicable snort rules that can be used. 

# Primary tab 2 - Reputation Center
: Provides access to searchable threat data related to IPs and files using their SHA256 hashes. Analysts would rely on these options to conduct their investigations. Additional email and spam data can be found under the Email & Spam Data tab.  




## Lab 
Use the information gathered from inspecting the Email1.eml file from the previous lab to answer the following questions using Cisco Talos Intelligence.  

Q. What is the listed domain of the IP address from the previous task? 
A. scnet.net

I went to Cisco Talos Intelligence (https://talosintelligence.com/) and searched for 204.93.183.11 
(View image: Screenshots/Cyber Threat Intelligence/02/2.5/Screenshot 2025-07-13 at 9.51.38 PM.png)

Then I could check the domain
(See where I found the answer: Screenshots/Cyber Threat Intelligence/02/2.5/Screenshot 2025-07-13 at 9.53.20 PM.png)



Q. What is the customer name of the IP address? 
A. Complete Web Reviews 

I couldn't find information on Cisco Talos Intelligence (See Image: Screenshots/Cyber Threat Intelligence/02/2.5/Screenshot 2025-07-13 at 9.58.16 PM.png), so I used this website called who.is -> https://who.is/

and searched for 204.93.183.11. Then I was able to find the answer, which was "Complete Web Reviews". 
(See where I found the answer: Screenshots/Cyber Threat Intelligence/02/2.5/Screenshot 2025-07-13 at 9.59.22 PM.png)



# From this Unit, I learned.. 
how to use Cisco Talos Intelligence to investigate IP addresses related to phishing emails. From this, I was able to identify the associated domain and customer name using both Talos and external tools like who.is. This unit helped me understand how threat intelligence platforms support phishing analysis and provide valuable context for incident response. 