# Scenario 1

You are a SOC Analyst. Several suspicious emails have been forwarded to you from other coworkers. You must obtain details from each email to triage the incidents reported. Use the tools and knowledge discussed throughout this chapter to help you analyze Email2.eml found on the VM and use the information to answer the questions. 


Q. According to Email2.eml, what is the recipient's email address? 
A. chris.lyons@supercarcenterdetroit.com 
(View where I found the answer: Screenshots/Cyber Threat Intelligence/02/2.6/Screenshot 2025-07-13 at 10.04.32 PM.png)
I could find it after clicking Email2.eml file in Emails folder.  


Q. On VirusTotal, the attached file can also be identified by a Detection Alias, which starts with an H.
A. HIDDENEXT/Worm.Gen 

VirusTotal’s Detection Alias is used for files, so to find it, I had to get the file hash value.
To do that, I went to terminal (In the VM) and did the following: 


ls
cd Desktop
ls
cd Emails
ls
sha256sum Email2.eml

And this gave me:
97028b1b198af6da1043b78e40e1efe519fe3def754cd9d1f29380ca11e5c361
(View image: Screenshots/Cyber Threat Intelligence/02/2.6/Screenshot 2025-07-13 at 10.21.58 PM.png) 


With this hashvalue, I went to CISCO Talos and searched for 97028b1b198af6da1043b78e40e1efe519fe3def754cd9d1f29380ca11e5c361, 
but I could not find the Detection alias name.
(View image: Screenshots/Cyber Threat Intelligence/02/2.6/Screenshot 2025-07-13 at 10.34.12 PM.png )

Therefore, I went to VirusTotal and searched for the same hashvalue. 
Then I was able to find the file Detection Alias that starts with H, which is 
(See where I found the answer: Screenshots/Cyber Threat Intelligence/02/2.6/Screenshot 2025-07-13 at 10.37.17 PM.png)


# Scenario 2
You are a SOC Analyst. Several suspicious emails have been forwarded to you from other coworkers. You must obtain details from each email to triage the incidents reported. Use the tools and knowledge discussed throughout the chapter to help you analyze Email3.eml found on the VM and use the information to answer the questions. 

Q. What is the name of the attachment on Email3.eml?
A. Sales_Receipt 5606.xls
(See where I found the answer: Screenshots/Cyber Threat Intelligence/02/2.6/Screenshot 2025-07-13 at 11.50.45 PM.png)

Q. What malware family is associated with the attachment on Email3.eml? 
A. 

This also requires hash vale, so I got it in the terminal on VM, by searching

ls
cd Desktop
ls
cd Emails
ls
sha256sum Email3.eml 

and I could get this result: f4d97603256a36e81bfe7ef5e0ccaee44f77de6bb041fa41f0b3a0db53f4aba9
(View image: Screenshots/Cyber Threat Intelligence/02/2.6/Screenshot 2025-07-14 at 12.05.44 AM.png)

I searched for this hash value in Cisco Talos, and could see that this file belongs to the Dridex malware family. 
(See where I found this: Screenshots/Cyber Threat Intelligence/02/2.6/Screenshot 2025-07-14 at 12.09.18 AM.png )



## From these two scenarios, I learned 
- How to navigate within a Linux terminal to locate .eml files and extract their SHA-256 hash using sha256sum.

- that Cisco Talos can identify malware families and VirusTotal is helpful for identifying detection aliases based on file hashes, especially when Cisco Talos doesn't provide the alias.

- .eml files can contain malicious attachments, and triaging email-based incidents involves analyzing both the email content and attachments.

- How to correlate file hashes with known malware families such as Dridex using public threat intelligence tools. 

I experienced the basic workflow of triaging phishing emails, which includes identifying recipients, extracting attachments, and researching malicious indicators. When Cisco Talos didn’t show me the detection alias, I felt a bit stuck but turning to VirusTotal reminded me that adaptability is key in cybersecurity. This scenario taught me not to panic when facing suspicious files or limited information, but instead to ask: “What tools or steps can I use to dig deeper?”.
From this lab, I gained more confidence in my ability to handle email-based incidents and started to see how I could contribute to an actual SOC environment. 


 