## What is Abuse.ch? 
Abuse.ch is a research project from Switzerland.
It was developed to identify and track malware and botnets through several operational platforms developed under the project. 
These platforms are:
- Malware Bazaar:  A resource for sharing malware samples.
- Feodo Tracker:  A resource used to track botnet command and control (C2) infrastructure linked with Emotet, Dridex and TrickBot.
- SSL Blacklist:  A resource for collecting and providing a blocklist for malicious SSL certificates and JA3/JA3s fingerprints.
- URL Haus:  A resource for sharing malware distribution sites.
- Threat Fox:  A resource for sharing indicators of compromise (IOCs).


Here's more details about them. 

# MalwareBazaar
This project is an all in one malware collection and analysis database. 

The project supports the following features:

1. Malware Samples Upload: Security analysts can upload their malware samples for analysis and build the intelligence database. This can be done through the browser or an API.
2. Malware Hunting: Hunting for malware samples is possible through setting up alerts to match various elements such as tags, signatures, YARA rules, ClamAV signatures and vendor detection. 


# FeodoTracker
- To share intelligence on botnet Command & Control (C&C) servers associated with Dridex, Emotes (aka Heodo), TrickBot, QakBot and BazarLoader/BazarBackdoor. 

-> This is achieved by providing a database of the C&C servers that security analysts can search through and investigate any suspicious IP addresses they have come across. 

- They provide various IP and IOC blocklists and mitigation information to be used to prevent botnet infections. 



# SSL Blacklist
This tool is to identify and detect malicious SSL connections. From these connections, SSL certificates used by botnet C2 servers would be identified and updated on a denylist that is provided for use. 

The denylist is also used to identify JA3 fingerprints that would help detect and block malware botnet C2 communications on the TCP layer.


# URLhaus
This tool focuses on sharing malicious URLs used for malware distribution. As an analyst, you can search through the database for domains, URLs, hashes and filetypes that are suspected to be malicious and validate your investigations.

The tool also provides feeds associated with country, AS number and Top Level Domain that an analyst can generate based on specific search needs.


# ThreatFox
With this, security analysts can search for, share and export indicators of compromise associated with malware.

IOCs can be exported in various formats such as MISP events, Suricata IDS Ruleset, Domain Host files, DNS Response Policy Zone, JSON files and CSV files. 




## Activities with ThreatFox, SSL BlackList, URLHaus, FeodoTracker: 
Q1. The IOC 212.192.246.30:5555 is identified under which malware alias name on ThreatFox? 
A1. Katana
Explanation: I was able to find the alias name in ThreatFox IOC database. 
View image as a reference: [Screenshots/Cyber Threat Intelligence/02/Screenshot 2025-07-04 at 10.32.48 PM.png] 


Q2. Which malware is associated with the JA3 Fingerprint 51c64c77e60f3980eea90869b68c58a8 on SSL Blacklist?
A2. Dridex 
Explanation: First navigate to SSL Backlist website and click on view details button under JA3 Fingerprints. Then search for 51c64c77e60f3980eea90869b68c58a8. 
View image as a reference: [Screenshots/Cyber Threat Intelligence/02/Screenshot 2025-07-04 at 10.38.10 PM.png]


Q3.From the statistics page on URLHaus, what malware-hosting network has the ASN number AS14061?  
A3. DIGITALOCEAN-ASN
Explanation: First navigate to URLHaus, and click Access Data- Statistic, use Command + F and search for AS14061, to find a malware-hosting network that has the ASN number AS14061. 
View image as a reference: [Screenshots/Cyber Threat Intelligence/02/Screenshot 2025-07-04 at 10.43.26 PM.png]  


Q4. Which country is the botnet IP address 178.134.47.166 associated with according to FeodoTracker? 
A4. Georgia
Explanation:  First navigate to FeodoTracker, click on View details under Botnet C&C. Then search for the IP IP address 178.134.47. The country name is provided. 
View image as a reference: [Screenshots/Cyber Threat Intelligence/02/Screenshot 2025-07-04 at 10.48.00 PM.png]  

