# Artifacts:
- *What is it?*
Pieces of evidence that point to an activity performed on a system. When performing DFIR, artifacts are collected to support a hypothesis or claim about attacker activity. 

For example- if we are to claim that the attacker used *Windows registry keys to maintain persistence on a system, we can use the said registry key to support our claim. In this case, the mentioned registry key will be considered an artifact. 

=> Therefore, Artifact collection is an essential part of the DFIR process.

*Windows registry key: a folder-like object within the Windows Registry, a central database used by the Windows operating system to store and manage configuration settings and options. It is part of the Windows Registry, which is the central database. It is not the database itself, but rather a component within it - like a folder in a file system. 

- *How are they collected and used?*
Artifacts can be collected from the Endpoint or Server's file system, memory, or network activity.
Most of the time, enterprise environments mainly consist of Windows and Linux Operating Systems. Windows systems are primarily used for endpoints and server use-cases, like Active Directory Domain Controllers or MS Exchange email servers. Enterprises primarily use Linux systems in the capacity of servers hosting some service, for example, web servers or database servers. 



# Evidence Preservation:
To maintain the integrity of evidence 1. 
The evidence is first collected and write-protected because any forensic analysis contaminates the evidence. Then, a copy of the write-protected evidence is used for analysis. This process ensures that the original evidence is not contaminated and remains safe while analyzing. 

 

# Chain of custody:
To maintain the integrity of evidence 2. 
When the evidence is collected, it must be made sure that it is kept in secure custody. 
Any person not related to the investigation must not possess the evidence, or it will contaminate the chain of custody of the evidence. 
A contaminated chain of custody raises questions about the integrity of the data and weakens the case being built by adding unknown variables that can't be solved. 

For example) 
Suppose a hard drive image, while being transferred from the person who took the image to the person who will perform the analysis, gets into the hands of a person who is not qualified to handle such evidence. 
In that case, we can't be sure if he dealt with the evidence correctly and hence didn't contaminate the evidence with his activity. 

# Order of volatility:
Digital evidence is often volatile, that means, it can be lost forever if not captured in time. 

For example) data in a computer system's memory (RAM) will be lost when the computer is shut down since the RAM keeps data only as long as it remains powered on. 

Some sources are more volatile as compared to others. 

For example) a hard drive is persistent storage and maintains the data even if power is lost. Therefore, a hard drive is less volatile than RAM. 

=> While performing DFIR, it is vital to understand the order of volatility of the different evidence sources to capture and preserve accordingly. In the example above, I will need to preserve the RAM before preserving the hard drive. 


# Timeline creation:
Once we have collected the artifacts and maintained their integrity, we need to present them understandably to fully use the information contained in them. 

A timeline of events needs to be created for efficient and accurate analysis. 
This timeline of events puts all the activities in chronological order. 
This activity is called timeline creation. 

=> Timeline creation provides perspective to the investigation and helps collate information from various sources to create a story of how things happened. 



# Activity: Practice timeline creation 
This is what I first saw when I started this activity. 
(View image: Screenshots/Digital Forensics /01/Screenshot 2025-07-22 at 11.58.39 AM.png)

Instruction: We have observed a malicious alert on our SIEM dashboard. It seems like someone was downloading a malicious package. Click on the alert below to add it to your timeline spreadsheet.

When I clicked the list, this is what I saw: 
Screenshots/Digital Forensics /01/Screenshot 2025-07-22 at 11.59.44 AM.png 

Instruction: Since we identified an IP address in the alert, we filtered all the traffic related to that IP address in the SIEM dashboard. We find the malicious IP address connected through an open SSH port in these filtered results. Click to add this result to our spreadsheet. Drag the events in the spreadsheet to bring them in ascending order of time. 

Then: Screenshots/Digital Forensics /01/Screenshot 2025-07-22 at 12.01.41 PM.png 

Instructions: Now, we check the Syslog for the compromised host to see what activity was performed by the attacker that can be of help. Click on the 'successful login attempt' event to add it to the spreadsheet.

Then: Screenshots/Digital Forensics /01/Screenshot 2025-07-22 at 12.02.29 PM.png 


Instructions: We checked the Syslog to find other interesting artifacts from the logs. 

Then: Screenshots/Digital Forensics /01/Screenshot 2025-07-22 at 12.03.16 PM.png 

Instructions: Order all the events in your Attack Timeline Spreadsheet. 

I managed to change their order in time. 




# Answer the question below- 
Q1.From amongst the RAM and the hard disk, which storage is more volatile?
A1. RAM 

because a hard drive is persistent storage and maintains the data even if power is lost 