# The Incident Response Process
In Security Operations, the prominent use of Digital Forensics is to perform Incident Response.  

Different organizations have published standardized methods to perform Incident Response. NIST has defined a process in their SP-800-61 Incident Handling guide, which has the following steps:

Preparation
Detection and Analysis
Containment, Eradication, and Recovery
Post-incident Activity

Similarly, SANS has published an Incident Handler's handbook. The handbook defines the steps as follows:

Preparation
Identification
Containment
Eradication
Recovery
Lessons Learned


The steps defined by SANS are often summarized as the acronym PICERL. 

Below is desscription of each step-
1. Preparation: Before an incident happens, preparation needs to be done so that everyone is ready in case of an incident. Preparation includes having the required people, processes, and technology to prevent and respond to incidents.

2. Identification: An incident is identified through some indicators in the identification phase. These indicators are then analyzed for False Positives, documented, and communicated to the relevant stakeholders.

3. Containment: In this phase, the incident is contained, and efforts are made to limit its effects. There can be short-term and long-term fixes for containing the threat based on forensic analysis of the incident that will be a part of this phase.

4. Eradication: Next, the threat is eradicated from the network. It has to be ensured that a proper forensic analysis is performed and the threat is effectively contained before eradication. 

For example) if the entry point of the threat actor into the network is not plugged, the threat will not be effectively eradicated, and the actor can gain a foothold again.

5. Recovery: Once the threat is removed from the network, the services that had been disrupted are brought back as they were before the incident happened.

6. Lessons Learned: Finally, a review of the incident is performed, the incident is documented, and steps are taken based on the findings from the incident to make sure that the team is better prepared for the next time an incident occurs. 


# Answer the questions below 
Q1. At what stage of the IR process are disrupted services brought back online as they were before the incident? 
A1. Recovery

Q2. At what stage of the IR process is the threat evicted from the network after performing the forensic analysis?
A2. Eradication

Q3. What is the NIST-equivalent of the step called "Lessons learned" in the SANS process?
A3. Post-incident Activity 