In this Unit, I have investigated a cyber-attack where the attacker had defaced a website 'imreallynotbatman.com' of the Wayne Enterprise. 

With TryHack Me, I mapped the attacker's activities into the 7 phases of the Cyber Kill Chain. 


Here's recap of everything I have found so far:

# Reconnaissance Phase:
This phase was to identify the IP address and other details about the adversary.

**Findings:**
- IP Address 40.80.148.42 was found to be scanning our webserver.
- The attacker was using Acunetix as a web scanner.


# Exploitation Phase:
Then I looked into the traces of exploitation attempts and found brute-force attacks against the server, which were successful.

**Findings:**
-Brute force attack originated from IP 23.22.63.114.
-The IP address used to gain access: 40.80.148.42
-142 unique brute force attempts were made against the server, out of which one attempt was successful


# Installation Phase:
Next, I looked at the installation phase to see any executable from the attacker's IP Address uploaded to the server.

**Findings:**
- A malicious executable file 3791.exe was observed to be uploaded by the attacker.
- I looked at the sysmon logs and found the MD5 hash of the file.


# Action on Objective:
After compromising the web server, the attacker defaced the website.

**Findings:**
I examined the logs and found the file name used to deface the webserver.


# Weaponization Phase:
I used various threat Intel platforms to find the attacker's infrastructure based on the following information I saw in the above activities.

Information we had:
Domain: prankglassinebracket.jumpingcrab.com
IP Address: 23.22.63.114

**Findings:**
- Multiple masquerading domains were found associated with the attacker's IPs.
- An email of the user Lillian.rose@po1s0n1vy.com was also found associated with the attacker's IP address.


# Deliver Phase:
In this phase, I again leveraged online Threat Intel sites to find malware associated with the adversary's IP address, which appeared to be a secondary attack vector if the initial compromise failed.

**Findings:**
A malware name MirandaTateScreensaver.scr.exe was found associated with the adversary.
MD5 of the malware was c99131e0169171935c5ac32615ed6261 


