## "What is SOC?" 

SOC stands for Security Operations Center. SOC investigate, monitor, prevent, and respond to threats in the cyber realm 24/7. 

The responsibilities include Ticketing, Log Collection, Knowledge Base, Research & Development, Aggregation & Correlation, Threat Intelligence, SIEM (Security information and event management), and reporting.
------------------------------------------------

## Preparation / Prevention 
1. Stay informed of the current cyber security threats (use Twitter and Feedly! They are great resources)
2. Work on a security roadmap to protect the organization - ready for the worst-case scenario 
3. Prevention include gathering intelligence data, maintenance procedures. 
*TTPs : Tactics, Technique, and Procedures. 

---

## Monitoring and Investigation 
1.a SOC team proactively uses  SIEM (Security information and event management) and EDR (Endpoint Detection and Response) tools to monitor suspicious and malicious network activities. 

2. Prioritizing Alerts is the key. (Low, Medium, High and Critical), SOC team works towards the bottom which means the low-level alert. 

**To mitigate the threat -> Security monitoring tools have to be properly configured. 

- What does Junior Security Analysts do here? 
Perform triaging on the ongoing alerts by exploring and understanding how a certain attack works and preventing bad things from happening if they can.  
"How? When, and why?" - This is important questions to raise. To answer these, security analysts find the answers by drilling down on the data logs and alerts with open-source tools. 


---

## Response 
After the investigation, the SOC team coordinates and takes action on the compromised hosts. 