Here, I learned how Virtual Machine works in this unit. 
Below is a brief explanation: 

<Two sub-folders>
Config-Sample: Sample configuration and rule files. These files are provided to show what the configuration files look like. Installed Snort instance doesn't use them, so feel free to practice and modify them. Snort's original base files are located under /etc/snort folder.
Exercise-Files: There are separate folders for each task. Each folder contains pcap, log and rule files ready to play with. 

--
# Traffic Generator
The machine is offline, but there is a script (traffic-generator.sh) for you to generate traffic to your snort interface. You will use this script to trigger traffic to the snort interface. Once you run the script, it will ask you to 1. choose the exercise type and then 2. automatically open another terminal to show you the output of the selected action.

Note: Each traffic is designed for a specific exercise. Make sure you start the snort instance and wait until to end of the script execution. Don't stop the traffic flood unless you choose the wrong exercise. 

Run the "traffic generator.sh" file by executing it as sudo. (user@ubuntu$ sudo ./traffic-generator.sh) 
Then I could see the action options and once I chose the action, I could see the output as follow :

(view image: Screenshots/Network Security and Traffic Analysis/02/2.2/Screenshot 2025-07-16 at 5.06.24 PM.png, Screenshots/Network Security and Traffic Analysis/02/2.2/Screenshot 2025-07-16 at 5.06.41 PM.png)



# Answer the question below: 
Q. Navigate to the Task-Exercises folder and run the command "./.easy.sh" and write the output
A. Too Easy! (view image: Screenshots/Network Security and Traffic Analysis/02/2.2/Screenshot 2025-07-16 at 5.09.05 PM.png) 

