# Here are the commands that I need to know: 
To check the instance version -> "snort -V" 

To ensure the config file is valid-> 
"-T" for testing configuration, and "-c" to identify the configuration file. (snort.conf)
For example, "sudo snort -c /etc/snort/snort.conf -T" 

* What is the config file? 
The configuration file is an all-in-one management file of the snort. Rules, plugins, detection mechanisms, default actions and output settings are identified here. It is possible to have multiple configuration files for different purposes and cases but can only use one at runtime.

Note: every time I start the Snort, it will automatically show the default banner and initial information about the setup. I can prevent this by using the " -q"  parameter. 

## Mini-lab (using VM)
Q. Run the Snort instance and check the build number.
A. 149
(View where I found the answer: Screenshots/Network Security and Traffic Analysis/02/2.4/Screenshot 2025-07-16 at 6.08.38 PM.png)

Q. Test the current instance with "/etc/snort/snort.conf" file and check how many rules are loaded with the current build.
A. 4151

(View where I found the answer: 
After executing "sudo snort -c /etc/snort/snort.conf -T" 
Scroll down to find the answer. 
Screenshots/Network Security and Traffic Analysis/02/2.4/Screenshot 2025-07-16 at 6.15.45 PM.png) 


Q. Test the current instance with "/etc/snort/snortv2.conf" file and check how many rules are loaded with the current build. 
A. 1

(View where I found the answer: 
After executing "sudo snort -c /etc/snort/snortv2.conf -T" 
Scroll down to find the answer.  
Screenshots/Network Security and Traffic Analysis/02/2.4/Screenshot 2025-07-16 at 6.18.59 PM.png)