## What is Network Traffic Analysis? 
A method of intercepting, recording/monitoring, and analysing network data and communication patterns to detect and respond to system health issues, network anomalies, and threats. The network is a rich data source, so traffic analysis is useful for security and operational matters. 
The operational issues cover system availability checks and measuring performance, and the security issues cover anomaly and suspicious activity detection on the network. 

Traffic analysis is part of multiple disciplines of network security operations listed below:
- Network Sniffing and Packet Analysis (Covered in Wireshark room)
- Network Monitoring (Covered in Zeek room)
- Intrusion Detection and Prevention (Covered in Snort room)
- Network Forensics (Covered in NetworkMiner room)
- Threat Hunting (Covered in Brim room)

** Two main techniques used in Traffic Analysis: 
1. Flow Analysis:
Collecting data/evidence from the networking devices. This type of analysis aims to provide statistical results through the data summary without applying in-depth packet-level investigation.

Advantage: Easy to collect and analyse.
Challenge: Doesn't provide full packet details to get the root cause of a case.


2. Packet Analysis:
Collecting all available network data. Applying in-depth packet-level investigation (often called Deep Packet Inspection (DPI)) to detect and block anomalous and malicious packets.

Advantage: Provides full packet details to get the root cause of a case.
Challenge: Requires time and skillset to analyse.


# Benefits of the Traffic Analysis: 
1. Provides full network visibility.
2. Helps comprehensive baselining for asset tracking.
3. Helps to detect/respond to anomalies and threats. 

# Does the Traffic Analysis Still Matter?: 
The widespread usage of security tools/services and an increasing shift to cloud computing force attackers to modify their tactics and techniques to avoid detection. 

Network data is a pure and rich data source. That means, even if it is encoded/encrypted, it still provides a value by pointing to an odd, weird or unexpected pattern/situation. 
Therefore, traffic analysis is still a must-to-have skill for any security analyst who wants to detect and respond to advanced threats.


# Mini-lab: 
Use the static site to simulate a traffic analysis operation and find the flags

Activity 1 - Add suspicious IP addresses to Filter.

I could observe that malicious packets were coming out from 10.10.99.99 and 10.10.99.62. (View Image: Screenshots/Network Security and Traffic Analysis/01/Screenshot 2025-07-14 at 2.14.55 AM.png) Therefore, I added 10.10.99.99 and 10.10.99.62 to Filter.  


Activity 2 - Add suspicious Ports to Filter.

From the IDS/IPS alerts table, I could observe that 
- 10.10.99.99 is flagged for Metasploit Traffic and Multiple Login Attempts.
- 10.10.99.74 is flagged for Suspicious ARP Behaviour.
- 10.10.99.62 is flagged for Bad Traffic.
So traffic coming from these IPs is likely part of an attack. 

With this information, I could see that the Destination IP addresses for these IP addresses are 4444, 7777, and 2222. 
(Viewe image: Screenshots/Network Security and Traffic Analysis/01/Screenshot 2025-07-14 at 2.15.07 AM.png)





## From this Unit, I learned.. 
- the core principles of network security, including how authentication and authorization are enforced through access and threat controls.
- how different tools and technologies like firewalls, VPNs, IDS/IPS, SIEM, and SOAR are used to secure and monitor networks.
- the differences between flow analysis and packet analysis, including their use cases, strengths, and limitations.

Here is what I felt: Through hands-on activities, I saw how real-time filtering and packet inspection can help detect active attacks like Metasploit and ARP spoofing. I got to practice detecting malicious traffic patterns using IP addresses and suspicious ports from IDS/IPS alerts. I felt more confident stepping into traffic/packet analysis and recognized how important these skills are for a cybersecurity analyst.

  