# Activities within a network
Before talking about SIEM, I first need to have better visibility of all the activities within a network. This image (Screenshots/SIEM/01/Screenshot 2025-07-21 at 6.30.57 PM.png) shows an example of a simple network that comprises multiple Linux/Windows based Endpoints, one data server, and one website. 
Each component communicates with the other or accesses the internet through a router.

<LOGS>
each network component can have one or more log sources generating different logs. One example could be setting up Sysmon along with Windows Event logs to have better visibility of Windows Endpoint.  

These are two logical parts of network log sources:

1) Host-Centric Log Sources: 
The log sources that capture events that occurred within or related to the host. Some log sources that generate host-centric logs are Windows Event logs, Sysmon, Osquery, etc. Below is some examples of host-centric logs. 

-A user accessing a file
-A user attempting to authenticate.
-A process Execution Activity
-A process adding/editing/deleting a registry key or value.
-Powershell execution


2) Network-Centric Log Sources:
Network-related logs are generated when the hosts communicate with each other or access the internet to visit a website. Some network-based protocols are SSH, VPN, HTTP/s, FTP, etc. Below is examples of such events. 

-SSH connection
-A file being accessed via FTP
-Web traffic
-A user accessing company's resources through VPN.
-Network file sharing Activity 




# Why is SIEM important? 
As all the devices generate hundreds of events per second, examining the imglogs on each device one by one in case of any incident can be a tedious task. 
That is one of the advantages of having a SIEM solution in place. 

It not only takes logs from various sources in real-time but also provides the ability to correlate between events, search through the logs, investigate incidents and respond promptly. 

Some key features provided by SIEM are:
-Real-time log Ingestion
-Alerting against abnormal activities
-24/7 Monitoring and visibility
-Protection against the latest threats through early detection
-Data Insights and visualization
-Ability to investigate past incidents. 



# Answer the questions below
Q1. Is Registry-related activity host-centric or network-centric?
A1. host-centric 

because registry-related activity happens within the operating system of the host itself and it does not involve network communication. It pertains directly to the internal configuration and operation of a specific device


Q2. Is VPN related activity host-centric or network-centric?
A2. network-centric 

because VPN (Virtual Private Network) activity primarily involves the transmission of encrypted data over a network.