Below is some common devices that are found in a network environment. 

# Windows Machine
Windows records every event that can be viewed through the Event Viewer utility. It assigns a unique ID to each type of log activity, making it easy for the analyst to examine and keep track of. 

To view events in a Windows environment, type "Event Viewer" in the search bar, and it takes a user to the tool where different logs are stored and can be viewed. 

* These logs from all windows endpoints are forwarded to the SIEM solution for monitoring and better visibility. 

# Linux Workstation
Linux OS stores all the related logs, such as events, errors, warnings, etc. Which are then ingested into SIEM for continuous monitoring. 

Some of the common locations where Linux store logs are:
-/var/log/httpd : Contains HTTP Request  / Response and error logs.
-/var/log/cron   : Events related to *cron jobs are stored in this location.
-/var/log/auth.log and /var/log/secure : Stores authentication related logs.
-/var/log/kern : This file stores kernel related events.

Here is a sample of a cron log:
May 28 13:04:20 ebr crond[2843]: /usr/sbin/crond 4.4 dillon's cron daemon, started with loglevel notice
May 28 13:04:20 ebr crond[2843]: no timestamp found (user root job sys-hourly)
May 28 13:04:20 ebr crond[2843]: no timestamp found (user root job sys-daily)
May 28 13:04:20 ebr crond[2843]: no timestamp found (user root job sys-weekly)
May 28 13:04:20 ebr crond[2843]: no timestamp found (user root job sys-monthly)
Jun 13 07:46:22 ebr crond[3592]: unable to exec /usr/sbin/sendmail: cron output for user root job sys-daily to /dev/null 

* cron job: a scheduled task on Unix-like operating systems that runs automatically at specified intervals. 



# Web Server
It is important to keep an eye on all the requests/responses coming in and out of the webserver for any potential web attack attempt.
In Linux, common locations to write all apache related logs are /var/log/apache or /var/log/httpd.

Here is an example of Apache Logs:
192.168.21.200 - - [21/March/2022:10:17:10 -0300] "GET /cgi-bin/try/ HTTP/1.0" 200 3395
127.0.0.1 - - [21/March/2022:10:22:04 -0300] "GET / HTTP/1.0" 200 2216 



# Log Ingestion 
All these logs provide a wealth of information and can help in identifying security issues. Each SIEM solution has its own way of ingesting the logs. 

Some common methods used by these SIEM solutions are explained below:

1) Agent / Forwarder: These SIEM solutions provide a lightweight tool called an agent (forwarder by Splunk) that gets installed in the Endpoint. It is configured to capture all the important logs and send them to the SIEM server.

2) Syslog: Syslog is a widely used protocol to collect data from various systems like web servers, databases, etc., are sent real-time data to the centralized destination.

3) Manual Upload: Some SIEM solutions, like Splunk, ELK, etc., allow users to ingest offline data for quick analysis. Once the data is ingested, it is normalized and made available for analysis.

4) Port-Forwarding: SIEM solutions can listen on a certain port, and then the endpoints forward the data to the SIEM instance on the listening port.

An example of how Splunk provides various methods for log Ingestion is shown here: 
(View image: Screenshots/SIEM/01/Screenshot 2025-07-21 at 6.49.44 PM.png)




# Answer the question below: 
Q1. In which location within a Linux environment are HTTP logs stored?
A1. /var/log/httpd 