As an Incident Handler / SOC Analyst, I would aim to know the attackers' tactics, techniques, and procedures. Then I can stop/defend/prevent against the attack in a better way. 

# Incident Handling Life Cycle  
The Incident Handling process is divided into four different phases. Preparation -> Detection and Analysis -> Containment, Eradication, and Recovery -> Post-Incident Activity / Lessons Learnt


1. Preparation
The preparation phase covers the readiness of an organization against an attack. That means documenting the requirements, defining the policies, incorporating the security controls to monitor like EDR / SIEM / IDS / IPS, etc. It also includes hiring/training the staff.

2. Detection and Analysis

The detection phase covers everything related to detecting an incident and the analysis process of the incident. This phase covers.. 
- getting alerts from the security controls like SIEM/EDR investigating the alert to find the root cause. 
- hunting for the unknown threat within the organization.

3. Containment, Eradication, and Recovery

This phase covers the actions needed to prevent the incident from spreading and securing the network. It involves steps taken to avoid an attack from spreading into the network, isolating the infected host, clearing the network from the infection traces, and gaining control back from the attack.

4. Post-Incident Activity / Lessons Learnt
This phase includes identifying the loopholes in the organization's security posture, which led to an intrusion, and improving so that the attack does not happen next time. The steps involve identifying weaknesses that led to the attack, adding detection rules so that similar breach does not happen again, and most importantly, training the staff if required. 