## What does Endpoint Logging do? 
It enables users to audit significant events across different endpoints, collect and aggregate them for searching capabilities, and better automate the detection of anomalies. 

# Windows Event Logs: 
The Windows Event Logs can't be viewed using a text editor. They are not text files. However, the raw data can be translated into XML using the Windows API. 
The events in these log files are stored in a proprietary binary format with a .evt or .evtx extension. 
The log files with the .evtx file extension typically reside in C:\Windows\System32\winevt\Logs.

There are three main ways of accessing these event logs within a Windows system:
- Event Viewer (GUI-based application)
- Wevtutil.exe (command-line tool)
- Get-WinEvent (PowerShell cmdlet) 


# Sysmon
A tool used to monitor and log events on Windows that is commonly used by enterprises. 
As part of the Windows Sysinternals package, Sysmon is similar to Windows Event Logs with further detail and granular control.

Sysmon gathers detailed and high-quality logs as well as event tracing that assists in identifying anomalies in user environment. 
It is commonly used with a security information and event management (SIEM) system or other log parsing solutions that aggregate, filter, and visualize events. 

Sysmon includes 27 types of Event IDs, all of which can be used within the required configuration file to specify how the events should be handled and analyzed.

This is an excellent example of a configuration file auditing different Event IDs created by SwiftOnSecurity: https://github.com/SwiftOnSecurity/sysmon-config 



# OSQuery
An open-source tool created by Facebook that Security Analysts, Incident Responders, and Threat Hunters can query an endpoint (or multiple endpoints) using SQL syntax. 

Osquery can be installed on various platforms: Windows, Linux, macOS, and FreeBSD.

- How to use Osquery interactive console/shell? 
Open CMD (or PowerShell) and run this command "osqueryi". Then, I will see this below: 
C:\Users\Administrator\> osqueryi
Using a virtual database. Need help, type 'help'
osquery>  

- Below is a sample use case for using OSQuery. It is to list important process information by its process name. 

osquery> select pid,name,path from processes where name='lsass.exe';
+-----+-----------+-------------------------------+
| pid | name      | path                          |
+-----+-----------+-------------------------------+
| 748 | lsass.exe | C:\Windows\System32\lsass.exe |
+-----+-----------+-------------------------------+
osquery> 


Note: Osquery only allows to query events inside the machine. 
But with Kolide Fleet, I can query multiple endpoints from the Kolide Fleet UI.  


# Wazuh
An open-source, freely available, and extensive *EDR(Endpoint Detection and Response) solution, which Security Engineers can deploy in all scales of environments.

#EDR: tools and applications that monitor devices for an activity that could indicate a threat or security breach. These tools and applications have features that include: 

- Auditing a device for common vulnerabilities.
- Proactively monitoring a device for suspicious activity such as unauthorized logins, brute-force attacks, or privilege escalations.
- Visualizing complex data and events into neat and trendy graphs. 
- Recording a device's normal operating behaviour to help with detecting anomalies
 

-------
Wazuh operates on a management and agent model where a dedicated manager device is responsible for managing agents installed on the devices that users would like to monitor.

 

# Answer the questions below 
Q1. Where do the Windows Event logs (.evtx files) typically reside? 
A1. C:\Windows\System32\winevt\Logs.

Q2. Provide the command used to enter OSQuery CLI.
A2. osqueryi

Q3. What does EDR mean? Provide the answer in lowercase.
A3. Endpoint Detection and Response